# Controllers

We've done a lot of work with views, but that's only part of the story. Views are one leg of the "Model-View-Controller" paradigm that the iOS SDK uses. That sounds really fancy, but it's actually simple.

In your code, you should have three types of classes: views (which you've already seen), models (which are normal objects that exist to represent or handle data), and controllers.

So...what are controllers? They're supposed to act as a layer between models and views, intrepreting events generated by the user for the models and updating the views in reponse. In a perfectly coded world, when you tap a button the controller intercepts that event, updates a property of the data, and changes the view to reflect the new property. 

You don't technically *need* controllers, but there are some really great reasons.

- View re-use. Let's say we have a PostView which displays all the information about a Post (it's content, author, "Likes", etc). We want to use this PostView on a couple of different screens, such as a main feed and a user's profile feed. To stay reuseable, the PostView shouldn't deal with how it gets its data; instead, its controller should take care of that.
- Presentation management. Sometimes we want a view to take up the entire screen, other times we want it to appear in a modal box. It doesn't make sense to write two identical views that differ only in presentation, so we use the controllers to resize and animate their views accordingly.


There's nothing technically stopping you from doing those things inside views, but it makes your code more robust and easier to manage.

So now that we know what a controller should do, what *shouldn't* it do?

- Directly query or save data. It's tempting to send a bunch of HTTP requests in a controller, but those are best left to your models.
- Complex view layouts. If you're adding directly adding subviews more then one level deep to your controller's `view`, you should rewrite your views to flatten that hierarchy. As a good rule of thumb, the only `addSubview` you should see is `self.view.addSubview`.
